-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to pull a docker image
from our DockerHub and then run it as a docker image.
Okay, so let's go to our DockerHub account, okay?
So hub.docker.com,
and then I have a DockerHub account here,
and let's see the image which we are going to use.
So I have a image called
dockerintrospringboothelloworldrest.apa.
So I'm going to use it.
So usually everyone will try to use NICs,
but we are trying to use it little different
so to show different things here.
So we'll see what are those things,
okay, so let's go to the docker fundamentals
and then pull from DockerHub and run docker images.
So let's start with the step one,
verify docker version and also log into our DockerHub
from our docker client perspective, right?
So let's go here and then clear,
and I will say docker version, right?
So it has given my client to docker engine version
which is 190305,
and also my server docker version also being provided here.
Okay, so let me clear this,
and then I'm going to say docker login so
that I'll be able to authenticate to my DockerHub account.
Okay, so already I have provided the credentials earlier,
so that's the reason it is showing.
So I can even say docker logout.
Okay, so now it has been logged out, so if we want,
we can even log in one more time,
so I can say a stack simplify.
Okay, so my login got succeeded.
So if you want anything
in conflict or JSON, we can crosscheck.
Okay, so nothing related to Mac OSX keychain, okay?
So that means we are good for now.
So let me clean this clear and go back here.
Okay, so now pull an image from DockerHub.
So for that we are going to use just docker pull
and the image, you can see here whatever is there,
you can pull this image
or you can get the image name directly
from our DockerHub account here, okay?
So this is the one, so whatever we want,
we can pull it in here, 1.0.0 hyphen release, okay?
So I'll try to copy this complete command
from here and then execute it further convenience.
Okay, so let me paste the command here.
So now it is going to download.
So that respective image is getting downloaded
to our local repo.
So let's wait for that to completely download.
So now it is downloaded,
so you have a command called docker images, okay?
So you can see here only one image,
whatever we have downloaded is available.
So there are no other images other than this.
So using docker images,
we have checked that downloaded image.
Okay, so let me clear this and then go back.
Okay, so now run the downloaded docker image,
and then access the application is over step three.
Okay, so you see this,
there is a command called docker run to run our image
as container on our local desktop, right?
So let's see what are the options here, right?
So the first thing is docker space run,
and then hyphen hyphen name and then I'm saying app one.
So nothing but this is an optional thing.
So what I'm trying to give here is
like my docker container name,
I'm going to give it as app one.
If you don't give it is going to autogenerate
some name for us, okay?
But always it is good to give a docker container name
what we are going to run.
So we are trying to use the best practice here, okay?
And the next thing is hyphen P and then 80 colon 80, 80.
So here, you see, right?
The first 80 whatever you are seeing is
your local port, okay?
Which is nothing, but you are going
to expose from your local desktop, okay?
And 80, 80 is nothing,
but the second one is nothing but your container port.
So you are mapping your container port 80, 80
to your local desktop port 80.
That's what you're doing here.
So whenever you access local host
to slash hello means which is nothing, but with port 80,
your application is accessible, okay?
With port 80, even though container port is 80, 80.
So that's the thing.
And hyphen D and your container means
like the image complete name including the tag value, right?
So like this.
So let's go and then copy this command now,
and then paste it and then run it, okay?
So we are going to run it now.
So now we are going to see it how it is running.
Okay, so docker PS is the command to see the list
running containers, okay, so my container is running, okay,
it is created and it's status and all those things,
we can see it here, okay?
So now the container name
at the end you are seeing, right?
It is nothing but app one and it's pointing is 80 to 80, 80.
You can see all these things here, okay?
So now let's go to the browser,
and then say local list slash hello, right?
So to else, Okay, hello world, we one you can see, right?
So now whatever we have run it,
we are able to access our application.
So let's go back here and then list
the running containers, okay?
And we have other commands also
if any other containers
which is stopper containers are there,
we'll be able to see them with the hyphen E.
In addition, we'll have something called Q hyphen Q,
which will give us only the container IDs, okay?
So if you want to stop the container,
then you need just the container ID, right?
So you can get that container ID and then stop it,
or you can pass this command as input
to another command, okay?
So for that purpose hyphen Q used, okay,
docker PSY hyphen QE is used for passing these container IDs
to another commands for doing whatever we want, okay?
So when we are doing the advance six sections
usually we'll know all those things.
So moving on.
So now we can even connect to that container terminal
which is nothing but whatever the docker container
whatever we have created is a Linux container.
So we can directly connect to that and see what's going on.
So further the command is docker exec and then hyphen IT,
and the container name and then slash bin slash SH.
Okay, so this is going to be something called
paste and my container name is app one,
and then slash bin slash SH, right?
So now I am in my container,
and you can see here my app dot jar is there,
and then lot of commands are going to not work.
Only basic commands will work.
You can see PSH fund here,
which is nothing but the Java command
whatever the spring boot application is running here, okay?
So now we are in our container, okay?
Means like inside the container command prompt,
we are here, okay?
So I'm going to exit and then I came out,
if you want again connect, you are in container, okay?
If you say LS add.JAR, PS minus CF,
you can see these things, okay?
If I say exceed again, I came back.
So I came back to my local MAC desktop.
So like this you'll be able to connect
to your container terminal.
So if you want to stop the container,
you can stop using container app one, right?
So I can say docker stop app one,
my container name is app one, so I'm stopping it, okay?
So if I say docker PS, right?
So no other containers are running, okay,
but if with hyphen here you can see the stopper containers.
So you can see the stopper container you are seeing,
you can see it here, exited 143, right?
So but without the hyphen,
only running containers you can see.
So now if you say local host,
and then access it, it's not working, right?
So now again, one more time, it is a stopper container,
you are going to start it.
So, and then say docker start app one.
Okay, now your container is running.
So when you say docker PS, you are able to see it, okay?
Hyphen here will give you the stopper containers,
and without hyphen here you can see the running containers.
Okay, so now it is again running.
So let's access this and then say, okay,
so hello world we one is coming.
That's good, okay, so now you have completed
that container, stop and start.
Finally, if you want to remove the container,
you can say docker space RM, and then container name.
Okay, so let's do that now.
Okay, docker RM and then container name is app one, okay?
You cannot remove your running container,
stop the container before attempting to remove it.
So let's go there and then stop it.
Now we have stopped it.
So if you say hyphen here, you can see that.
And then it is an exited state.
You can see it here, right?
So now I'm going to say docker RM and then app one.
So now my container is removed.
So PS it doesn't show.
And even in the PS hyphen here, also it doesn't show, why,
because even the stopper container is removed
from my mission, okay?
So with PS it is not showing docker PS
or with PS hyphen AR, also it is not showing.
So that's about it.
Okay, finally, if you want to remove the image,
so you can say docker image and then image ID,
no, it should be docker RMI, and then image ID.
So let me correct this.
So whatever the downloaded image we have,
just go ahead and then remove that image.
So let's say first docker images, clear docker images
and then get the image ID.
So this is the image ID, okay?
And then say docker RMI, which is nothing,
but remove the image and then provide the image ID.
Okay, so now the docker image is removed,
so let's say docker images, nothing is displayed.
So whatever you have pulled
from our DockerHub is not available.
So now it is plain empty.
So no other images on my local desktop.
So that's about the flow.
Pull docker image from DockerHub and then run it.
So we have done it in eight steps and then all these
will be as a reference for you whenever
you want to execute, okay?
So you can go to this docker GitHub account and then use it.
Okay, so I'll see you in the next lecture
with our next flow.
Until then, bye bye, thank you!